The intent is to have a personal assistant, ai, that grows with you.

https://github.com/lexlapax/rs-llmspell taught me a lot.
Then came [openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw), which had similar concepts, but made it explode because of how easy it was to make it do things just by talking to it, giving it instructions.

I was going to start rs-aikit, but then, it was a good time to pause.
Reassess what I was going for. I looked at OpenClaw and then realized it's a very user-friendly interface to add more integration, add code-ability. However, I also think the runtime should not be bloated. Using JavaScript not only opens up security holes runtime becomes large. Rust is a still a good language to write compact and see run times we should still use the power of unique with the compostable small utility programs that you can call out to as a co-tenant of the system.
I did create https://github.com/lexlapax/allbert-assist-rs with these notes in mind..

however, looking at elixir and OTP and jido agent libraries, it might be time to rethink this.

As the name for the project, we are going to call it Allbert. some background on the name
    - Lexical Context (Personality Traits): Researchers Franziska Baumgarten, and later Gordon Allport and Henry S. Odbert (1936), studied the "lexical hypothesis,"
    - the two names "Allport" and "odbert" - combine them to be Allbert
    - albert is batman's butler, we just have an extra l


So so the runtime should be a kernel still just like rs-llmspell but it should be a small kernel that knows how to read skills, that knows how to start an agentic loop or subloop.
it should have a dynamic memory system that for runtime should have compiled probably rag, but any silly store has just marked down files and linked together.
It should have an ability to prune and maintain a system memory.
It should have an ability to retrain a small model that's just for memory and probably for personality making use of something like karpathy's microgpt that you can distil, retrain every night.
For planning and logic it should probably use a foundational model like Claude or Gemini or GPT.
It should have core tools built-in that knows how to create shelves and on commands. It should have a ability to serve websites potentially.
it should have ability to manage memory.
It should have a tool to read and manage skills.
it should have a way to do all this securely with checks at the kernel level for security.
It should have an ability to compile itself again and reboot strap using the rust compiler.

"I still think usable scripting in lua or python or javascript would make it easier" <-- this is still a valid assumption but since we're going after elixir, this is a moot point, comes part of the runtime. Elixir allows you to write code and consume/run that code.
to add functionality to the core kernel or create templated tools, but that can potentially be done by skills. Maybe there should be a scripting engine interface, generic to the kernel to begin with, and we can add a scripting engine later.
From my functionality level, I would like it to be able to do the following:
    - when I search things in Google, I should be able to search things in my chat, the face and it records things that I search and extracts and remembers it and stores it for training the engines are the personality so that tune itself to me
    - when I tell you to do things, it should be able to either find the skills and ask me if I want to use those based on the security permissions and if you can't find those should be able to create a skill on its own that can do it
    - it's to keep track of costs associated with running itself
    - When it runs into problems, I should be able to turn tracing on so that it itself can learn from the tracing and find out what went wrong or I can help it diagnose
    - it should do all of these things in markdown files for posterity and transference to another system however, for a runtime performance, it should have compilation steps by a cron
    - schedule jobs are given probably by a crown or some OS level of crown schedule jobs

Start off with we should probably have a simple agent blue a few tools like the ability to call shell commands and gather input and ability to read skills and run them and isn't the loop is always listening for input. after that, we can have scheduled and Cohen jobs
some potential rust libraries to look at:
    - web search for rust shell library
    - web search for rust canvas library
    - web search for rust markdown library
some references to look at
    - NousResearch/hermes-agent

some other notes:
What we want is an agent sub-agent harness that's run by the kernel loop in the daemon. 
What we also want is the ability to add new agents and capabilities via skills. 
what we also want is proper memory so that context given to agents is properly curated and stored for future use. 
what we also want is an intent understanding at the first point in the agent loop, so that the primary or initial agent knows what skills to use and what to do, for example kick of a background job etc. what we also want is multiple channels to get input and provided output, repl / cli is the first one, the next one might be telgram/discord/whatsapp type access, the next may be a native web interface, the next may be email, and SMS. 
what we also want is a specialized skill for coding, one for rust so that we can re-do and compile our own code for allber-assist, one for creating new skills using python or lua etc..

also, what we want is to anticipate the end user. the enduser wants to interact naturally with the agent, via text and other media, (different input methods) and wants output accodingly. expecting the user to program is not a natural interface. so we should focus on agent scaffolding in rust code. and use text or md files for configuration of the agentic system - ala AGENTS.md, SOUL.md  or config files or text inputs via cli or other interfaces..